The transition from playing football at grassroots levels to the professional level remains one of the most unpredictable pathways in the sports world. Aspiring footballers often face the reality that being discovered depends massively on circumstances and chance, 
the “luck factor”. A scout may or may not attend a particular match, and a player may or may not be in form on that specific day. As a result, many skilled players go unnoticed their whole lives, not because of a lack of talent, but due to the absence of a structured platform to consistently showcase their abilities.

Striving to abolish this ‘luck’ factor, this project presents Next XI, a web-based footballer talent showcase platform. Next XI shifts the power to players giving them a platform to showcase their best moments, highlight reels, achievements, and season statistics allowing scouts, managers, and football enthusiasts to identify and recruit based on consistently demonstrated performance, rather than the current method of isolated in-person observations. This platform creates a digital portfolio space tailored to the football community through integrated social features like video uploads, likes, comments, shares, and direct messaging. 

Regarding origin, the idea for Next XI originated through a conversation with my brother, who suggested building a platform to give overlooked players a chance to be seen. From that moment, we immediately began brainstorming the project vision, requirements, and use cases using tools such as MoSCoW analysis. The mission was clear, we wanted to give footballers, particularly those in grassroots settings, a fairer shot at visibility and success.

While numerous existing platforms attempt to offer similar features, most are either too complex (e.g., Hudl) or are geared towards different/multiple audiences (e.g., TikTok, LinkedIn). Next XI aims to bridge this usability gap by offering a niche, football-specific social platform that is intuitive, accessible, and geared towards performance exposure rather than general social media engagement.
